[Music]
The root cause of your stress isn't
coming from where you think it actually
is. It's not about life circumstances or
how busy you are. It's about the fact
that you are holding back your emotions.
In this video, I talked to a woman about
how to reduce stress by reframing her
experience of emotions, failure, and
enjoyment. And along the way, you'll be
invited to do some experiments.
I just had authority issues. So, I I did
not like being told what to do. And I
was interested in self-development. And
so I would find all these teachers and
the teachers would tell great things,
say what to do, but I'd be like, "Yeah,
you're full of because you're an
authority." Go. So I would test it out
myself. I would iterate. I would say,
"Oh, I'm going to run an experiment and
see what works for me." And as I did
that, what I noticed is when I was in
that iterative mindset, a lot of stuff
worked. And when I got into a management
mindset, then it stopped working. So for
instance, let's say I wanted to work
out. If I was iterative, oh, I hear this
might work or this might work or this
might work and I tried those different
things, I would be working out. But if I
went to I know what I should do, I
should work out six times a week, then
it wouldn't work.
And later I found out what caused that.
And it's this structure in your head
called the habenula.
And it's in all vertebraes. And it
basically is a part of the brain that
tells us, hey, you shouldn't fail too
much or you shouldn't fail twice. So
let's say for instance, I was going to
fight for dominance in a tribe and I
lost, I probably shouldn't do that right
away again or I'd be dead. Or if I eat
that mushroom and I got sick, I probably
shouldn't do that again. And there's a
structure in the brain that prevents us
from making a mistake over and over
again. And but basically what that does
is it makes us not feel good about
failure. So the way this works in our
system is we're hanging out and we say,
"Hey, we're going to have a diet." And
we try that diet and then we fail one
day and we go, "Ah, screw it. I'm not
going to even try anymore." And boom,
we're eating chocolate cake. Whereas if
you have a diet and you say, "Oh, on
Thursdays I get a cheat day." And you
fail on that Thursday because it's a
cheat day, but it's an okay thing to do.
then Friday you're back to your diet.
And so it's this thing whereas if you
set the idea that you can fail up,
then it's incredibly stressful because
you will fail at some point. But if
you're constantly iterating, if it's a
iterative mindset, I'm not trying to get
perfect. I'm not trying to get great. I
know I'm going to mess up. The job is
the way I don't mess up is to try things
and try new things and then try new
things and then try new things. Boom.
then it makes for very easy ways to
accomplish things. The thing that
creates so much stress and
accomplishment is failing and feeling
like, "Oh, now I have to push over a
hump to do it again." Or, "Oh, I'm
scared to fail." You take all that
stress out of the system by just having
an iterative mindset.
Here is a great experiment that you can
do on the iterative mindset. I want you
to think about something that you feel
deeply stuck on. Something that you've
been trying to do for a long time and
you haven't been able to do it. Whether
it's lose weight or stop smoking or
be nicer to your friends or listen
better, whatever it is, I want you to
think about it.
And then in a minute I'm going to ask
you to pause the video. And what I want
you to do is I want you to write 15
distinct iterations that you can make
that you can do to achieve this goal. So
it's not one thing in 15 different ways.
So
for instance, if you're trying to lose
weight, one of the things might be play
pickle ball, one of the things might be
walk with a friend. One of the things
might be
um play dodgeball. One of them things
might be try an ayurveetic cleanse. One
of them things might be do a juice fast.
But I want you to come up with 15 of
them. And I want you to write them down
in order.
And then right next to that, I want you
to write down what you would have to do
to make each one of those things fun.
And if you can't think of a way to make
it fun,
enjoyable,
something that you want to do, then you
have to come up with a different one. So
you have 15 things, 15 iterations that
you would find enjoyable
to change this thing about yourself that
you've been trying to change for years.
And then once you've finished watching
the video, when you're ready, you can
just do them in order. You'll do one
until it fails, and then you'll do the
next until it fails. Maybe one of them
doesn't fail. Maybe they all fail.
Doesn't matter. You're just doing them
in order and see what happens.
Okay, go ahead and pause the video and
complete your list.
The second one is enjoyment. And so this
one was weird for me to understand.
And it's because in in business what
happens is there's speed and we call
speed efficiency. So, oh they did that
really quick. They were really
efficient. But if you have a really fast
car, you don't go, "Oh, that's an
efficient car." The efficient car is the
car that does things with the least
amount of energy. So, if I'm in my
business, how do I measure what the
least amount of energy is to do
something? And it's how much I enjoy it.
So, if I walk out at the end of the day
and I feel better than I walked into the
day, I enjoyed it. If I walk out of a
meeting and I'm invigorated, then I
enjoyed it. And that means I wasn't
using as much energy to get the thing
done, which means I was efficient. And
so, when I realized that, oh,
prioritizing enjoyment in my work, how
do I enjoy the things? And that doesn't
mean only that I do different things
that I enjoy. It's how do I enjoy the
things that I'm doing? If I'm writing
emails, what's the way to do that that's
enjoyable? What's the way to do that
that's painful?
If I am having a conversation
with a client and I'm selling something,
how do I do that in a way that's
connecting and enjoying and and and
isn't making me feel like I'm trying to
control somebody cuz that's not
enjoyable. Everything goes through the
lens of how do I enjoy this process?
So this is going to be an experiment on
what it is to feel and to not feel. So
it's a really simple experiment.
We are going to do everything to not
feel our experience in the moment right
now.
whatever you have to do to shut down
every single emotion
to not feel at all.
If you're feeling numb, you're still
feeling numb. So, you're not even
allowed to feel numb. You can't feel
anything.
Whatever you have to do, whatever you
have to tighten, whatever you have to do
to feel absolutely
nothing.
Okay? So, just let that go and let
yourself feel everything
fully open to feeling all of it.
You don't have to try to feel anything.
You're just experiencing whatever is
happening in this moment without any
resistance.
You don't have to try. You're just
allowing all of what's here.
And now let's stop feeling.
Cut it all off.
Shut it down.
All the way.
No emotions at all.
And take a deep breath. Relax. And allow
yourself to feel all of it.
The whole thing. No resistance. Just be
with all of those sensations,
all of those feelings.
Big welcoming arms.
So, which do you want? A life where
you're feeling or a life where you're
not feeling?
What most people think about getting to
joy is, oh, I'm going to try to be happy
and that's going to create joy. Or I'm
going to try not to be angry or sad and
that's going to create joy. But there's
a huge difference between joy and
joy, you know, like, oh, I'm supposed to
be happy and nice. That rigid thing and
that loose thing of joy. And so
the the trick instead is to actually
feel everything. And the Tibetans have
this great thought structure on it. And
the traditional Chinese medicine has
this great thought structure about all
of these emotional channels and how they
are when they're uncinkedked. And you'll
start to see things like, oh, fear is
really excitement without the breath.
That if you actually fully feel your
fear, there's often a lot of excitement
there. And there's a lot of energizing
that happens with it. And so these
emotional structures, if we start to
welcome them, they change.
What people call anger isn't anger. It's
repressed anger. It's kinkedked anger.
What people call fear isn't fear. It's
it's a kinkedked fear. It's a it's a
strangled. It's repressed. And if you
allow all of these emotions to move
through you fluidly,
what happens is you feel a lot more joy.
A and there's a lot more joy in each of
the emotions. often times what we see as
stress and overwhelm is just emotions
that are stuck and we're just holding
that musculature so tightly.
So it's a it's a really cool way to move
from stress to joy.
So I want to leave you with this last
experiment you can take with you and you
can use it anytime. I highly suggest
doing it at least once a day for a week.
And what you're going to do is you're
going to do the same thing that you did
in the last exercise where you go back
and forth between not feeling and
feeling. Not feeling and feeling.
But this time you are going to allow the
feeling state to last longer and longer
and the not feeling state to be shorter
and shorter.
So, you're going to just get longer and
longer moments of feeling and shorter
and shorter feelings of not feeling.
If you notice that when you're feeling,
you start resisting, that's not a
problem. That's just a sign to super
resist. To resist every emotion. That's
your moment to go, "Oh, I'm resisting an
emotion. I'm going to go all the way
there."
And once you've gone all the way there,
then you come back and you feel
everything. The unresisted feeling
state.
If you get distracted, no problem.
You'll notice that in the distraction
that the feelings will often try to
constrict. And if they do, then you just
go to super constriction.
once you've noticed the distraction
and then
once those are super constracted for a
while then you go back to the feeling
state. And so just do that for like 15
20 minutes a day for 7 days and see how
much your life changes, how much
consciousness you have on your dayto-day
about how much you're holding back your
emotional experience.
If you found this video helpful, please
subscribe. And if you want more tools
for reducing stress, you can go here or
click on the link below.